I've been brainstorming. How can we suggest or improve a bus system using machine learning?

Dev's comment earlier has been on my mind recently, he said that we could just use a simple linear regression model to better predict ridership and then use that data to design the routes. It may be better.

So this is a suggested pipeline for a system that creates routes. 

Every week-ish, that weeks parameters are put into a model that then generates sample ridership. This model may be linear or something else, idk. What's important is that this sample ridership is a reasonable estimate for what actual ridership looks like for that city in those conditions. Important conditions to include are the weather forecast, holidays, if schools/universities are running, day of the week, etc. This could be one model for the whole week or 7 models one for each day of the week idk.

The most important feature of the data is that it gets right *where* people are starting/going and *at what time*. We should operate maybe on a subnet of the London network to test this out intuitively. Let's call this the Ridership Predictor or RIPR. 

At that point this data is passed to any number of optimization algorithms that take in a list of rider trips and determine the optimal bus transit network for that ridership. This is the final network that the whole system produces. This is a complicated process and as such there are many ways to do this and they may not always find the optimal solution. Let's call this the Route Designer.

We'll also create (if we have enough time) a second version of the Route Designer that uses some kind of clustering. But we leave this for later if we have enough time.

This pipeline is run once per week. And as such routes are completely dynamic every week. 

As it's always good to create vocabulary to make discussing the problem easier let's name these parts. Let's call the whole pipeline/system the Weekly Dynamic Route Design System. It has two parts: a ridership predictor (or RIPR for short) and a route designer (or RODES for short). We'll also call the whole system RipRode for short. RODES has 2 versions - the pure algorithm version and the clustering-algorithm version - so we'll call them RODES-α and RODES-β or *RA* and *RB* for short.

To test how good this system is we need to have controls to benchmark against. The easiest of them is to compare against the current route layout of London's transport system. Beyond that I think it would be good to compare against an intuitive guess (we'll draw $n$ routes ourselves). Also the sweeping algorithm, Clarke-Write Savings Heuristic, Google's OR-tools, and CONCORDE from UWaterloo.
We can order them by increasing complexity:
- Intuitive guess (each group member draws routes by hand)
- London's current transport system -> see dataset
- Sweeping algorithm -> https://arxiv.org/pdf/1901.02771
- Clarke-Write Savings Heuristic
- Google's OR-tools: developers.google.com/optimization/routing/penalties
- CONCORDE (and other TSP solvers)

How do they compare - as in by what metric(s)?

Params & hyperparams? It's early but there are some that are clear already:
- number of routes
- etc.

